bbo directing messages.md, before:

bbo directing messages.md


# create tournament

BBUT 500

+allavail+
+MPLIMIT=123+
+MPLIMIT=49+

http://webutil.bridgebase.com/v2/tarchive.php?m=h&h=vacb240341&d=vacb240341 for BBO results

https://my.acbl.org/club-results/240341 for ACBL results

# tournament beginning


Please be online and active on BBO a few minutes prior to game time. Pairs will not get seated when one of the pair does not have sufficient BB$ in their account.

2 partners offline or inactive on BBO. Where is your partner now?

Players cutting it close to the start time: BBO does not seat your pair if one of you is offline or one of you is online but inactive on BBO or one of you has insufficient BBO funds.

The near miss crew are just logging on now.

Hail, Hail, the Gang's All Here

Please play quickly, alert your own bids, claim when you can. 
Keep all chat until the end of the round. 
Be kind, Zero Tolerance.

No revokes, no leads out of turn, no bids out of turn, no insufficient bids!
No spilled drinks, no soft pillows, no moving to the next table!

Welcome to this meet of the Everglades Virtual Bridge Club

Slow tables, note that play ceases when a round ends.

The GIB Robot adjusts unfinished boards. If GIB gets stuck on a board, a director will review the board and may adjust it.

Click on the blue box in the chat window to pick your chat recipient

Remember to self-alert conventional bids.

Open Chart applies; Your convention card will default to SAYC if it is not set to something else.

Your convention card will default to SAYC if it is not set to something else.


Welcome to the afternoon game at The Everglades Virtual Bridge Club. Please self-alert your own bids. Please claim when you can. Please defer chat until end of the round. Please be gracious to one and all.

Welcome to the evening game at St. Andrews Virtual Bridge Club. Please self-alert your own bids. Please claim when you can and it makes sense. Please defer chat until end of the round. Please be gracious to one and all.


# to all during play

Have a Nice Tournament!!

Thank you for playing today!

Please be mindful of the clock.

To call a Director, click the blue box with 3 lines inside. 

Your convention card will default to SAYC if it is not set to something else. 
Above all, have fun!

The bidding window includes a line for alerts. Click the alert button, fill in the areement description and then make your bid.

To Alert: We self alert: First click the alert button in the bidding box before making a call and type your explanation in box provided, then make your call. This ensures that opponents receive the information they need about your agreements and your partner will not see it.

To call the TD: There's a blue box with 3 white lines at the top of your table. You will find table options there like calling the TD, checking opps convention card etc.

Misclicks happen. Undos are not allowed, nor is announcing your mistakes. When this happens, continue. To avoid this, use your account setting to toggle on CONFIRM BIDS and/or CONFIRM CARDS.

Claim hands when you can. BE KIND, Zero tolerance in effect. Have fun!

Click a bid made by an opponent to silently request an explanation.

Clock is winding down, pick up the pace if you are still playing.

When presented with a claim, click the accept or reject buttons.

your yellow means it is your turn

That yellow color is a cue that player has an action

dummy excepted! declarer has that duty

To speed play consider Account, Settings, Autoplay singletons.

# at the table

Director here! How can I help?

North, are you there?
Your call North.
North, your play.

South, are you there?
Your call South.
South, your play.

East, are you there?
Your call East.
East, your play.

West, are you there?
Your call West.
West, your play.

Let's wait a minute to see if partner returns.

Will reseat you soonest.

You're back!

Thank you for substituting!

Please play quickly. Claim when you can.

Please pick up the pace so you do not lose a board.

Please keep all chat until the end of the round.

A request for an explanation needs to be honored to clear the pop up box. 

It is declarer who must play a card from Dummy if it is Dummy's turn to play a card.


# end of session

Thank you for playing this afternoon. Results will be ready soon after at https://my.acbl.org/club-results/240341 or https://standrewsbridge.com

Thank you for playing this afternoon. Results will be ready soon after at https://my.acbl.org/club-results/108480

Thank you for playing this evening. Results will be ready soon after at https://my.acbl.org/club-results/108480


# notes to director
1330748 Lynn Kruger
 487178 Dan Kruger

Crash beyond our control. 

Substituting a specific player for the Sitout
What DOES work-Use the Substitutes entry in Tournament Menu! Type ‘sitout’ and the name of your player.  Repeat.
Alternatively, at the red username, choose sub any and then replace the sub with your specified username.  (???is this rude to the random sub?)
(What does NOT work (at present)-click on the red username in the Table list or at the table-this is a bug and will be fixed at some point.)

Commit message:

Update bbo directing messages.md
Bonnie's Bridge Bulletin message.

bbo directing messages.md, after:

bbo directing messages.md


# create tournament

BBUT 500

+allavail+
+MPLIMIT=123+
+MPLIMIT=49+

http://webutil.bridgebase.com/v2/tarchive.php?m=h&h=vacb240341&d=vacb240341 for BBO results

https://my.acbl.org/club-results/240341 for ACBL results

# tournament beginning


Please be online and active on BBO a few minutes prior to game time. Pairs will not get seated when one of the pair does not have sufficient BB$ in their account.

3 partners offline or inactive on BBO. Where is your partner now?

Players cutting it close to the start time: BBO does not seat your pair if one of you is offline or one of you is online but inactive on BBO or one of you has insufficient BBO funds.

The near miss crew are just logging on now.

Your partner is offline to BBO.

Hail, Hail, the Gang's All Here

Please read pages 9, 26 and 27 in the July Bridge Bulletin concerning Bridge Ethics.

Please play quickly, alert your own bids, claim when you can. 
Keep all chat until the end of the round. 
Be kind, Zero Tolerance.

No revokes, no leads out of turn, no bids out of turn, no insufficient bids!
No spilled drinks, no soft pillows, no moving to the next table!

Welcome to this meet of the Everglades Virtual Bridge Club

Slow tables, note that play ceases when a round ends.

The GIB Robot adjusts unfinished boards. If GIB gets stuck on a board, a director will review the board and may adjust it.

Click on the blue box in the chat window to pick your chat recipient

Remember to self-alert conventional bids.

Open Chart applies; Your convention card will default to SAYC if it is not set to something else.

Your convention card will default to SAYC if it is not set to something else.


Welcome to the afternoon game at The Everglades Virtual Bridge Club. Please self-alert your own bids. Please claim when you can. Please defer chat until end of the round. Please be gracious to one and all.

Welcome to the evening game at St. Andrews Virtual Bridge Club. Please self-alert your own bids. Please claim when you can and it makes sense. Please defer chat until end of the round. Please be gracious to one and all.


# to all during play

Have a Nice Tournament!!

Thank you for playing today!

If you're removed from the game for being slow, disconnected or unresponsive - please log out of BBO and log back in, system will know you're back and reseat you at the start of the next hand

Please be mindful of the clock.

To call a Director, click the blue box with 3 lines inside. 

Your convention card will default to SAYC if it is not set to something else. 
Above all, have fun!

The bidding window includes a line for alerts. Click the alert button, fill in the areement description and then make your bid.

To Alert: We self alert: First click the alert button in the bidding box before making a call and type your explanation in box provided, then make your call. This ensures that opponents receive the information they need about your agreements and your partner will not see it.

To call the TD: There's a blue box with 3 white lines at the top of your table. You will find table options there like calling the TD, checking opps convention card etc.

Misclicks happen. Undos are not allowed, nor is announcing your mistakes. When this happens, continue. To avoid this, use your account setting to toggle on CONFIRM BIDS and/or CONFIRM CARDS.

Claim hands when you can. BE KIND, Zero tolerance in effect. Have fun!

Click a bid made by an opponent to silently request an explanation.

Clock is winding down, pick up the pace if you are still playing.

When presented with a claim, click the accept or reject buttons.

your yellow means it is your turn

That yellow color is a cue that player has an action

dummy excepted! declarer has that duty

To speed play consider Account, Settings, Autoplay singletons.

# at the table

Director here! How can I help?

North, are you there?
Your call North.
North, your play.

South, are you there?
Your call South.
South, your play.

East, are you there?
Your call East.
East, your play.

West, are you there?
Your call West.
West, your play.

Let's wait a minute to see if partner returns.

Will reseat you soonest.

You're back!

Thank you for substituting!

Please play quickly. Claim when you can.

Please pick up the pace so you do not lose a board.

Please keep all chat until the end of the round.

A request for an explanation needs to be honored to clear the pop up box. 

It is declarer who must play a card from Dummy if it is Dummy's turn to play a card.


# end of session

Thank you for playing this afternoon. Results will be ready soon after at https://my.acbl.org/club-results/240341 or https://standrewsbridge.com

Thank you for playing this afternoon. Results will be ready soon after at https://my.acbl.org/club-results/108480

Thank you for playing this afternoon. Results will be ready soon after at https://my.acbl.org/club-results/277079

Thank you for playing this evening. Results will be ready soon after at https://my.acbl.org/club-results/108480


# notes to director
1330748 fahnkruger Lynn Kruger
7864981 daniel kay Dan Kruger 
7931611 granny7164

Crash beyond our control. 

Substituting a specific player for the Sitout
What DOES work-Use the Substitutes entry in Tournament Menu! Type ‘sitout’ and the name of your player.  Repeat.
Alternatively, at the red username, choose sub any and then replace the sub with your specified username.  (???is this rude to the random sub?)
(What does NOT work (at present)-click on the red username in the Table list or at the table-this is a bug and will be fixed at some point.)
